Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to create variables and store necessarily e-mail aliments.
And right now, because we are going to grab a lot of e-mail elements, I want to just dedicate this
lecture to selecting all of them and to explaining why we need to select those.
So I'm just going to go into two tabs in here.
I'm going to create two tabs and I'm going to go like like let's accommodate half.
I'm going to zoom out of it.
I hope this is still visible for you.
So I'm going to say Consed.
All right.
So the first element that I want to select what what is going on here?
So I'm going to say consed the first one that I want to select is going to be the balance element.
So I'm going to call it balance E-L and we are going a right, we are going to say document that query
selector.
OK, I hope this is visible.
You know what, I'm just going to zoom in a bit more to its original state and we are going to work
like this because I thought that was not readable enough.
And this is really important which elements we are selecting and why we are selecting that.
That's why I have dedicated a complete lecture to it.
And from next lecture onward, we are going to create our even listeners and functions.
So through the query selector method, what we are going to do is we are going to grab the balance.
Balance, and from there, we're going to grab the value diff inside, which we have.
OK, we forgot our quote inside, which we have our two paragraphs.
And through that, we are going to update the entire HTML of this by this value deth.
Right.
So the next element, why do I keep mis const misspelling that?
So the next thing that I want to grab is going to be the income total element.
Now the income total element is this element.
Right.
So I'm going to call it income total E-L element, document query selecter.
So I'm going to grab it by the class.
It is this one of course.
So we are going to grab this class and we are going to put it right here.
I mean, if this is really simple for you and this is like boring, you can skip.
But I think this is really, really important because these variables they create they they actually
create the backbone of this entire application.
And if you do one mistake here, your application is not going to work.
So this is really important.
And I want to make sure that I can understand it, OK, because this application is super important.
OK, so I'm going to say total element, document, query selector.
So for that we can have another class, which is the expense total.
You're going to take a look at does that class as well.
So if I come here, this is the expense total.
The next one is I want to grab our tracker.
So we are done with the header with selecting the budget header.
Now let's dive into the the income tracker and the expense tracker FISA like this.
We have a div inside which we have our you and our div of inputs.
So I'm just going to grab this div by its IDE and.
I'm going to come here and I'm going to say const consed income, I'm going to call it an income element
that was the income total, an outcome total.
Now, this is going to be the income element and the expense element.
So document, query, selector, query selector.
Where is the query selector.
Let's pass in the hash or the numbers signed for the, for the, for selecting IDs.
So the next thing that I want to do is I want to, I want to select the, the expense structure as well.
So I'm just going to call it expense.
Yeah.
So let's say document dot query selector that's passing the I.D. and the name is Expense Tracker.
We're just going to change it to expense tracker array.
And right after that I want to grab the all element.
Right.
This, this dif I want to grab that as well.
And this is why I've told you that there is a lot of moving parts and for that reason we need to grab
all of them because whenever we add something we need to change an entry or add like changing by changing.
I mean like adding or removing that entry from multiple places.
So we need all of that inside our JavaScript.
So query selector and that's selected by the ID.
The next one is, is going to be the income list.
Now these are the others which which are inside these trackers.
So this you.
Well, I want to grab all three of the US.
All right, OK, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to say consed income list income.
I hope you're not getting confused with these variable names.
We have income, total outcome, total, pretty self-explanatory.
Income element.
Expense element.
Income list.
Right.
So document.
Document that query selector.
And we are going to grab our.
Income tracker, and from there, we are going to grab the expense because the class name for all of
our released list is the same, right?
So we have our income list, so I can just go ahead and grab this, do control DNA expense and save
it.
So now we have we have selected the list inside our expense structure.
Let me just do this a little and we can select our own list as well.
So all list, but we don't have an all tracker.
We just have an all and a list.
Now, we are getting close, of course, but I want to select all the lists in one and I want to store
them inside one variable as well.
So I'm going to say lists, hence the extra s and I'm going to say query selector all because we have
three lists and I'm going to select them by their class.
They have the same class.
Next, I want to grab our tabs.
I want to select the tabs as well.
And here is this tab three.
This says this top this is tab to this expense for some reason is tab number one.
Maybe this should have been tab two and that should have been one.
Doesn't really matter.
So let's go ahead and let's grab our expenses first, so consed expense b10 I'm just going to call it
expense button, let's say document, document, dot, query, selecter, not all.
And we are going to grab the tab, number one, and we are going to call it the expense, we are going
to grab the tab number to call it the income and tab number three.
And we are going to call it the all all.
OK, so let's grab tab one.
And let's say to two, and let's say top three, so this is going to be our income income and this is
going to be all but OK.
And this Tab's they are of course they are the three.
But whenever we go ahead and we click on these 3s, we are going to see these lists, this entire container
for that specific track or be shown there.
For now, it doesn't show that.
So we need a dynamic way of doing that.
The next thing that I want to do is I want to grab our input buttons.
All right, and I'm going to say consed add expense, so the first one is going to be add expense and
we are going to say document, dot, query, selecter, not all.
And we are going to grab the add expense.
So this is this is the expense.
So where is the ad expense class here.
So this is, this is the input button.
So this is what we actually want.
These are the inputs.
So these are these inputs.
Whenever you click on this ad, this is an input type of submit.
All right.
But whenever you click on it, it is going to submit the information inside this four to this.
Well, all right.
So we grab grab the ad expense class from there, let's put it here, and we are going to grab the expense
title and expense amount.
But for now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to grab the ad income as well.
So ad income.
And the class name is going to be income, of course.
Let's go ahead and check it out.
Yes, it says that income and hmm, we don't have any further at all because we are not adding it.
They're they're adding it.
They're dynamically.
So the next thing that I want to grab is going to be the expense expense title.
Right, it is going to be document that query selector.
So what is the expense title?
This is the expense title and this is the ID for that.
So we are going to select it using the ID.
But let's put it right here and say it.
The next thing and final thing for our expense is going to be the expense amount, expense amount.
This is the amount that the user inserts inserts.
So this is the expense.
This sorry, this is the expense title and this is the expense amount.
We are basically selecting those.
So document that query selector.
Very selecter, let's pass on the numbers sign, so this is going to be the expense amount, so let's
grab it and let's put it right here.
We have the same things for our incomes as well.
Right.
And just going to increase this a little bit.
So instead of this expense title, we can just select all of them and we can say income title and we
should check the names in case they're not correct.
So we have income total inputs, we have income title input and we have income amount input, income
amount input.
So this lecture is getting close to its end.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to.
Create some some necessary variables as well.
So I'm just going to call them necessary variables, very, very explanatory, right.
And in here, what I'm what I want to do is I want to create an entry, an entry list.
So you might ask, okay, what is this entry list?
This entry list is equal to an empty array.
Whenever we whenever the user inserts something, inserts either an income or an expense, we're going
to push it to this array.
And this is the same array that I showed you in the project, introduction video inside the local storage.
So we have this array there.
All right, and what I'm going to do is I'm going to use our destruct shrink once more and I'm going
to write balance, I'm going to grab the balance, the income and the outcome.
And I want to provide them with some initial values.
All right.
And I also want to use the restructuring assignment one more time.
And I want to select the delete icon.
We are going to use them towards the end of this, towards the middle to the end of this project.
But we need them here.
Right.
And I want to grab the edit icon as well.
Because whenever the user clicks on the delete icon, I want to delete something and on the edit icon,
I want to edit something.
So for the edit icon, what we have is the class name is Faez F a Dash.
This is the delete icon and the other array item is going to be r dash f a dash edit.
Right.
So what you might be asking, what is this?
So instead of like creating three variables here and two variables here and ending up with five variables,
we can just use the word restructuring assignment where the balance is the first item of this array
and what it equals.
Two is the first item of the array in front of it.
So this this number zero is going to be the value for the balance, for the value, for the value of
income.
This is going to be devar for the variable of income.
This is going to be the value.
And for the variable of the outcome, this is going to be delivering value for delete icon.
We are going to have this strength for the edit icon.
You're are going to have this string.
So instead of like creating balance, setting it to zero and then creating another variable and setting
that to zero, then outcome setting it to zero, we can just use restructuring, which reduces the number
of lines of code, and we end up with a cleaner code at the end of the day.
So this is going to be it for like creating variables and selecting Ishmail elements.
In the next lecture, we are going to go over some very, very basic event listeners for our tabs.
See you guys then.